[SOUND] Welcome back to the course
on approximation algorithms.
So far, we have studied the vertex
cover problem in some detail.
Now, we will turn to another
problem which is a classic problem
in approximation algorithms.
Namely, the knapsack problem.
This will be an opportunity for
us to study another version of rounding.
On nine vertex cover we are not going
to round some fractional solution
to get the output,but we
will round the input values
to get a simplified input
that will be more tractable.
So studying the knapsack problem
will be an opportunity for
us to work on input rounding.
First, better start by
defining the knapsack problem.
It is a problem that
comes up all the time,
whenever you go on a trip,
whenever you travel,
whenever you go camping you have to
decide which items to take with you.
Which items to take in your knapsack?
For example, let's say you're
about to go camping somewhere, and
you have put in your room you have taken
out all of the items that you might
consider taking with you.
How can you do without your favorite cat?
A hammock is good when
you're going camping.
You like this piece of jewelry,
isn't it beautiful?
Etc.
But if you're going to carry everything
on your back, you can only carry so much.
Every item has a certain weight and
you only have so much capacity.
So, given how much value
you give to each item, and
given the maximum weight you're willing
to carry, which items should you take?
For example,
the pocket knife is relatively light, but
very, very valuable when
you're going camping.
It is very hard to go
camping without a knife.
In general, the classic knapsack
problem given a capacity B,
the maximum weight you can carry,
given a set of n items where
item i has a certain size or weight,
s sub i and a certain value,
v sub i, you have to choose which
items to place in a knapsack,
so as to maximize the value of what
you take with you on your trip,
while respecting
the constraint capacity of B.
This problem along with 20 other problems
was proved to be NP-hard In Dikhof's
famous paper on anti-completeness.
So we cannot hope to solve it exactly
in polynomial time in general.
That is why this problem
is a good candidate for
designing an approximation algorithm.
How to get started?
Here's a general recipe for
designing approximation algorithms.
First, let's try to find a good
representation for the problem.
A good representation for
the input and for the output.
In this case,
let's think of a graphical representation.
Item i is defined by its size as si and
its value, vi.
Two numbers characterizing item i.
It is therefore natural to represent item
i as a rectangle of side length vi, si.
When you choose to take several items,
it means you choose to
take several rectangles.
The things we take have a certain
total value, you sum the values.
Total size, you sum their sizes.
What does this mean?
It means that you can represent
your solution using two dimensions.
One axis is for value,
the other axis is for size.
You put the rectangles side by side,
or rather, corner by corner, each
northeast corner of one rectangle touching
the southwest corner or a next rectangle.
And then, that defines, for
a given set of items, that defines
a way to represent the sum
of the values of the items.
And if you look at the vertical axis,
the sizes,
you can visualize the sum
of the sizes of the items.
What does it mean that
you have a capacity of B?
It means that the sort of staircase that
you're building in this way has to have
height at most B, given that you want
it to go east as far as possible.
That's a graphical representation for
the knapsack problem.
You're limited in height, you want to
go to the right as far as possible.
What you desire is small size, high value,
rectangles that are very flat.
These are clearly very
desirable rectangles.
You will want to take these
rectangles more than others.
What this suggests is that
you should consider items
by order of ratio size over value.
You take them by increasing
order of size over value, and
then with how can you
choose which ones to take?
The first attempt,
the naive greedy algorithm,
is to just take them
greedily in that order.
So the algorithm is, it is
sort the items by increasing
size over value and
then place them one by one,
as long as they fit, in the knapsack.
Unfortunately, this greedy algorithm
is not a good approximation algorithm.
It does produce something
that fits in the knapsack.
It's correct, it gives you a solution.
It does run in polynomial time.
It's basically the time it takes
to sort the ratios si over vi.
However, the solution could be quite bad.
Let me give you an example.
B = 100.
You have a knapsack of capacity 100.
n equals to one item.
A little rectangle with value 1 size 1,
and another item, a big rectangle,
a huge rectangle,
with value 99 and size 100.
What happens then?
If you look at the ratios, the little
rectangle is slightly preferable.
It has a slightly better ratio.
So you will take it first, and it fits.
So you put it in, and now you're doomed.
Why?
Because the next item does not fit.
So that's it.
Your output will be the little rectangle,
value one.
Whereas the optimal choice
would have been to forget about
the little one and
take only the big rectangle, value 99.
So the algorithm that works by increasing
slope is bad, the greedy algorithm is bad.
The ratio, we just gave
an example is at least as bad as
within a factor of 99 of opt.
And it can be arbitrary really.
So we have to design a better
algorithm for knapsack.
Here's another general recipe to try
to design approximation algorithms.
We need to develop more intuition.
How do we do that?
Let's try some special cases.
Here are some simple special cases.
What if all items have the same size?
Then we know exactly how
many of them will fit, and
it's only a question of maximizing value,
then it's easy.
Greedy will take them by
order of decreasing value.
It's the correct algorithm,
greedy is good.
Too easy, this special case was too easy.
Let's try again.
What if all items have the same value?
Then greedy will take them by order
of increasing size, this is good.
Too easy again.
All right, let's try again.
What if all items have
size equal to value?
Then all the ratios are equal to one, and
the greedy algorithm, as we've defined it,
doesn't really distinguish between them.
It takes them in arbitrary order.
So now this is becoming interesting.
And so, we now need to design a new
algorithm to deal with the special
case when all items have
size equal to their value.
So we have defined the knapsack problem,
we have tried to define an algorithm,
the increasing slope algorithm.
And because of its failure to give a good
approximation ratio, we have decided to
temporarily focus on the special case
when all items have size equal to value.
This will be the object
of the next section.